---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/1/
type: stop
section_title: Introduction
title: History of the Church in Manila
page_rank: 1
stop_id: 1
audio_file: 01-history of church in manila
hero_images:
 - path: 01-1-Hwang Ho Seng.png
   alt_text: Brother Hwang Ho Seng
 - path: 01-2-Watchman Nee.png
   alt_text: Brother Watchman Nee
---

# History of the church in Manila

Among the overseas Chinese in the city of Manila 100 years ago, the only Christian group was the Episcopalian Church. It was here that Dr. Hwang Ho Seng and his family attended services. In 1930, Brother Hwang went back to mainland China. He touched the flow of the Lord’s recovery in Fujian when he came to know the brothers the Lord had raised up. Because of this, he was opened by the Lord inwardly and saw that denominations are condemned by God. He and his wife were both baptized unto the Lord. Being determined to leave the denominations and take the Lord’s way, they thus came out of the Episcopal Church. At the same time, there were also some saints who followed suit. They rented a place in Nueva Street in Manila and started to meet under the name United Christian Society. Not long afterwards, they gained some people when they invited Brother Leland Wang over to hold revival meetings and preach the gospel. Following this, he introduced Brother Simon Meek to come preach the gospel. Later, when they moved from Nueva Street to Gandara Street, they changed their name to Christian Gospel Hall and registered with the government under the name Chinese Christian Gospel Chapel. Some brothers were chosen to be board members in compliance with registration procedures. However, in the years 1930 to 1937, although they had invited a few renowned evangelists and revivalists from here and abroad to hold conferences and preach the gospel, the number of saved ones were not many. The regular attendance was about 100.

One day they heard the news that Brother Watchman Nee would pass through Manila on his way to England. The responsible brothers invited him to hold a conference, and everyone was very happy with that. On the day of his arrival, the brothers all went to the pier to welcome him. It took a while after the ship had docked before they saw a big, tall man standing beside the railings. He was smiling and waving as he waited to disembark. Getting off the ship, he was brought to the house of Brother Hwang Ho Seng and his younger sister, Sister Ng Tzu-Ai, where he was accommodated. Before his arrival, it had already been decided that they would advertise the conference in the newspapers and hang big banners on the streets as they have done before. But when he heard of this, he strongly disagreed and told them to immediately call these things off, otherwise he would not be speaking. The conference only pushed through when all these publicity activities were cancelled.

The messages in the conference were taken from the book of Romans concerning the overcoming life of Christians. The contents were more or less like those which he would speak in England and later published in the book The Normal Christian Life. (Brother Nee had held Overcomers Conference in various places in China at that time.)

Brother Nee released a message on God’s eternal plan based on Genesis 1 and 2 on one Lord’s Day. On another Lord’s Day, he spoke about “In Nothing Be Anxious”.

On still another Lord’s Day, he spoke on the ground of the church and our testimony. He also touched upon the difference in relationship between co-workers and elders with a local church. He said that elders are for a locality and co-workers are for various places. Elders are for administrating a church in a locality and may stay there for a long period of time. However, co-workers are for various places, so they have to go from place to place. In a local church, there should not be a presiding pastor. Right there and then he asked the co-worker, “Brother, are you here as an elder or co-worker? If you are an elder, it is right for you to stay long in this place. If you are a co-worker, you must care for various places.” He spoke with such authority from heaven.

One time, in a meeting held by special request, he spoke on the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. After that message, a meeting was set on a Tuesday night at the house of Brother Hwang Ho Seng to receive the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. Before the meeting that very evening, Brother Nee requested Brother Hwang to take him to the seaside at Luneta. Brother Hwang said, “What? Aren’t you going to lead us through this experience of the outpouring of the Holy Spirit?” He said, “No. I won’t be here. I am going to the seaside. The truth is, if I am present, you will not experience the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. If I am absent, then you will experience the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. I am going to the seaside to pray for you.” And so, Brother Hwang could only follow orders and brought him to the seaside. When the time came, the saints started to sing and pray. There were about 20 brothers and sisters. Everyone opened their mouth to praise the Lord and sure enough everyone received the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. In such atmosphere of joy in the Lord’s presence, their voices of praise and shouting could be heard far and near. They prayed and praised until ten o’clock. By that time, Brother Nee had returned and they related to him what had happened. After listening, he smilingly motioned with his finger and said, “‘This’ is the ‘that’ which I was telling you about.” From that point on, the different meetings of the church greatly improved: from being dead and weak, they became strong and released.  Burning in spirit, the brothers and sisters spontaneously formed themselves into teams to pass out gospel tracts everywhere. They invited or visited people to bring them to salvation. Every gospel meeting, there would be a group praying at the roof top to support the one on the podium; they only stop when the meeting was over. Thus, the number of those being saved increased from time to time and the Lord’s kingdom expanded.