---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/14/
type: stop
section_title: 1937
title: Watchman Nee's Visit to the Philippines
page_rank: 14
stop_id: 14
audio_file: hc-03-05.mp3
hero_images:
 - path: img-03-05.png
   alt_text: Watchman Nee's Publications
---

In the conference, Brother Nee spoke on the overcoming life of Christ based on the book of Romans. His messages were similar to those he had delivered at the Overcomer Conference in China and would later deliver in England on his next leg of the journey. These messages were eventually published in the book The Normal Christian Life, considered a 20th-century Christian classic that sold over one million copies world-wide.

Brother Nee stayed for a month during his visit to the Philippines, spending most of his time in the cool city of Baguio, located in the northern mountains of the country. Aside from the conference, he delivered messages on several Lord’s Days, covering a variety of topics. On one Lord’s Day, he spoke about God’s eternal plan based on Genesis 1 and 2. On another, he discussed the topic “In Nothing Be Anxious.” On a third Lord’s Day, Brother Nee spoke about the ground of the church and our testimony. 

One time, in a meeting held by special request, Brother Nee spoke about the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. Following that message, a time was set for Tuesday night at the house of Brother Huang Ho Seng for the saints to practically experience the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. That evening before the meeting, Brother Nee unexpectedly requested Brother Huang to take him to the seaside at Luneta. Surprised, Brother Huang asked, “What? Aren’t you going to lead us through this experience of the outpouring of the Holy Spirit?” Brother Nee replied, “No. I won’t be here. I am going to the seaside. The truth is, if I am present, you will not experience the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. If I am absent, then you will experience the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. I am going to the seaside to pray for you.”

So, following Brother Nee’s request, Brother Huang took him to the seaside. When the time came, about 20 brothers and sisters gathered, singing and praying. Everyone opened their mouths to praise the Lord. The atmosphere was so joyful and exuberant, and their shouts of praise could be heard far and near. Sure enough, the Holy Spirit was outpoured upon them! They prayed and praised until ten o’clock. By that time, Brother Nee had returned, and they excitedly related to him what had happened. Smilingly, Brother Nee motioned with his finger and said, “This is what I have been telling you about.”

From that point on, the different meetings of the church improved tremendously. No longer dead and weak, they became strong and released. Burning in spirit, the brothers and sisters spontaneously formed teams to give out gospel tracts everywhere. They invited or visited people to bring them to salvation. During every gospel meeting, a group would pray on the rooftop to support the one on the podium, stopping only when the meeting was over. Consequently, the number of those being saved increased significantly. 
